README.md, before:

# i18n-postal-address

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/i18n-postal-address.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/i18n-postal-address)
![Tests](https://github.com/joaocarmo/i18n-postal-address/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)

A JavaScript library to produce international postal addresses formatted by
region for Node.js and the web.

**Try it out in the [playground]!**

## Installation

```sh
npm install i18n-postal-address

# or

yarn add i18n-postal-address
```

## Usage

### As an ESM module (web)

Load **i18n-postal-address** directly from [skypack][skypack] (CDN).

```html
<script type="module">
  import PostalAddress from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/i18n-postal-address'
</script>
```

Demo available in [codepen][codepen].

### On the web (self-hosted)

It's exposed through the _window_ global object as explained below.

`index.html`

```html
<head>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="./postal-address.js"></script>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="./app.js"></script>
</head>
```

`app.js`

```js
// Define myAddress
var PostalAddress = window.PostalAddress.default
var myAddress = new PostalAddress()

// ...
```

### With a bundler / Node.js

With a bundler (e.g. webpack) or in Node.js you can just require / import it.

```js
import PostalAddress from 'i18n-postal-address'

// Define myAddress
const myAddress = new PostalAddress()
```

## Example

The methods can be chained one after the other for a cleaner code.

```js
const myAddressPersonal = new PostalAddress()

myAddressPersonal
  .setAddress1('Rua do Pastel, 19')
  .setCity('Aveiro')
  .setCountry('Portugal')
  .setFirstName('John')
  .setHonorific('Mr.')
  .setLastName('Pestana')
  .setPostalCode('2700-242')
  .setSecondName('Lopes')
  .setFormat({
    country: 'AR',
    type: 'personal',
  })

console.log(myAddressPersonal.toArray())

console.log(myAddressPersonal.toString())
```

`toArray()`

```txt
[ [ 'Mr.', 'John', 'Lopes' ],
  [ 'Pestana' ],
  [ 'Rua do Pastel, 19' ],
  [ '2700-242', 'Aveiro' ],
  [ 'Portugal' ] ]
```

`toString()`

```txt
Mr. John Lopes
Pestana
Rua do Pastel, 19
2700-242 Aveiro
Portugal
```

## Available Class Methods

### Address Attributes

```js
setAddress1(string)
setAddress2(string)
setAddressNum(string)
setCity(string)
setCompanyName(string)
setCountry(string)
setDo(string)
setDong(string)
setFirstLastName(string)
setFirstName(string)
setGu(string)
setHonorific(string)
setJobTitle(string)
setLastName(string)
setPostalCode(string)
setPrefecture(string)
setProvince(string)
setRegion(string)
setRepublic(string)
setSecondLastName(string)
setSecondName(string)
setSi(string)
setState(string)
setTitle(string)
```

### Options

These affect the output format

```js
/*
  Input one country and one type,
  Define whether text transformations should be executed

  country: 'CA' | ...
  type: 'business' | 'english' | 'default' | 'french' | 'personal'
  useTransforms: true | false
*/

const postalAddress = new PostalAddress()

postalAddress.setFormat({ country, type, useTransforms })
```

### Custom Formats

Additional formats can be added or existing ones can be replaced

```js
/*
  The country should be an uppercase ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code

  The format should be an array of array of strings or objects
    - The strings should be valid attribute names
    - The objects should contain the attribute (required)
    - The objects may contain an array of transforming functions that will be
      applied sequentially over the given attribute with the following signature
        (string) => string
*/

const addCommaAfter = (value) => `${value},`

const postalAddress = new PostalAddress()

postalAddress.addFormat({
  country: 'PT',
  format: [
    [{ attribute: 'lastName', transforms: [addCommaAfter] }, 'firstName'],
    ['city', 'postalCode'],
    ['country'],
  ],
})
```

#### Valid attributes

```txt
address1
address2
addressNum
city
companyName
country
countryAlpha2
do
dong
firstLastName
firstName
gu
honorific
jobTitle
lastName
postalCode
prefecture
province
region
republic
secondLastName
secondName
si
state
title
```

## Experimental string parsing

If you're interested in parsing a string into an object, you can use the new
experimental support for parsing addresses using some existing libraries.

### libpostal

This is the most complete and comprehensive library for parsing addresses. You
need to be using the **node** version as it's not supported on the web.

#### Requirements

1. Install [libpostal][libpostal] following their installation instructions, or
   execute [this script][install-libpostal] if you're on a \*nix machine
2. Install [node-postal][node-postal] as a dependency in your project, _after
   installing libpostal_

#### Experimental usage

Notice the import is slightly different, you should import this library as
`i18n-postal-address/strings`.

```js
const PostalAddress = require('i18n-postal-address/strings').default

const postalAddress = new PostalAddress()

postalAddress.fromString(
  'Barboncino 781 Franklin Ave, Crown Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11238',
)

console.log(postalAddress.toString())
```

```txt
Barboncino 781 Franklin Ave
Crown Heights Brooklyn
NY 11238
```

## Background

### Why

The [libpostal][libpostal] library is not available on the web.

Need to present postal addresses for different regions worldwide stored in
individual parts (company name, address, postal code, city, county, country,
...).

### Inspiration

**Disclaimer:** It doesn't mean this library tries to recreate any of these

MSDN > ... > Globalization and Localization >
[Appendix V International Address Formats][msappendix]

[Query Address Data][qad]

[PostalAddress][pa]

## Forking / Contributing

Build

```sh
yarn build
```

Test

```sh
yarn test:unit

yarn test:functional
```

<!-- References -->

[codepen]: https://codepen.io/joaocarmo/pen/bGeOVQw
[install-libpostal]: ./scripts/install-libpostal.sh
[libpostal]: https://github.com/openvenues/libpostal
[msappendix]: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc195167.aspx
[node-postal]: https://github.com/openvenues/node-postal
[pa]: https://schema.org/PostalAddress
[playground]: https://joaocarmo.com/i18n-postal-address-playground
[qad]: http://i18napis.appspot.com/address
[skypack]: https://skypack.dev

Commit message:

refactor(package.json): move `node-postal` to `optionalDependencies` (#63)
* refactor(package.json): Move node-postal from peerDependencies to optionalDependencies

* docs(README): Update libpostal section to clarify it's optional

* style(.eslintrc.js): Add rule to ignore extraneous dependencies

README.md, after:

# i18n-postal-address

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/i18n-postal-address.svg)](https://badge.fury.io/js/i18n-postal-address)
![Tests](https://github.com/joaocarmo/i18n-postal-address/workflows/Tests/badge.svg)

A JavaScript library to produce international postal addresses formatted by
region for Node.js and the web.

**Try it out in the [playground]!**

## Installation

```sh
npm install i18n-postal-address

# or

yarn add i18n-postal-address
```

## Usage

### As an ESM module (web)

Load **i18n-postal-address** directly from [skypack][skypack] (CDN).

```html
<script type="module">
  import PostalAddress from 'https://cdn.skypack.dev/i18n-postal-address'
</script>
```

Demo available in [codepen][codepen].

### On the web (self-hosted)

It's exposed through the _window_ global object as explained below.

`index.html`

```html
<head>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="./postal-address.js"></script>
  <script type="text/javascript" src="./app.js"></script>
</head>
```

`app.js`

```js
// Define myAddress
var PostalAddress = window.PostalAddress.default
var myAddress = new PostalAddress()

// ...
```

### With a bundler / Node.js

With a bundler (e.g. webpack) or in Node.js you can just require / import it.

```js
import PostalAddress from 'i18n-postal-address'

// Define myAddress
const myAddress = new PostalAddress()
```

## Example

The methods can be chained one after the other for a cleaner code.

```js
const myAddressPersonal = new PostalAddress()

myAddressPersonal
  .setAddress1('Rua do Pastel, 19')
  .setCity('Aveiro')
  .setCountry('Portugal')
  .setFirstName('John')
  .setHonorific('Mr.')
  .setLastName('Pestana')
  .setPostalCode('2700-242')
  .setSecondName('Lopes')
  .setFormat({
    country: 'AR',
    type: 'personal',
  })

console.log(myAddressPersonal.toArray())

console.log(myAddressPersonal.toString())
```

`toArray()`

```txt
[ [ 'Mr.', 'John', 'Lopes' ],
  [ 'Pestana' ],
  [ 'Rua do Pastel, 19' ],
  [ '2700-242', 'Aveiro' ],
  [ 'Portugal' ] ]
```

`toString()`

```txt
Mr. John Lopes
Pestana
Rua do Pastel, 19
2700-242 Aveiro
Portugal
```

## Available Class Methods

### Address Attributes

```js
setAddress1(string)
setAddress2(string)
setAddressNum(string)
setCity(string)
setCompanyName(string)
setCountry(string)
setDo(string)
setDong(string)
setFirstLastName(string)
setFirstName(string)
setGu(string)
setHonorific(string)
setJobTitle(string)
setLastName(string)
setPostalCode(string)
setPrefecture(string)
setProvince(string)
setRegion(string)
setRepublic(string)
setSecondLastName(string)
setSecondName(string)
setSi(string)
setState(string)
setTitle(string)
```

### Options

These affect the output format

```js
/*
  Input one country and one type,
  Define whether text transformations should be executed

  country: 'CA' | ...
  type: 'business' | 'english' | 'default' | 'french' | 'personal'
  useTransforms: true | false
*/

const postalAddress = new PostalAddress()

postalAddress.setFormat({ country, type, useTransforms })
```

### Custom Formats

Additional formats can be added or existing ones can be replaced

```js
/*
  The country should be an uppercase ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 code

  The format should be an array of array of strings or objects
    - The strings should be valid attribute names
    - The objects should contain the attribute (required)
    - The objects may contain an array of transforming functions that will be
      applied sequentially over the given attribute with the following signature
        (string) => string
*/

const addCommaAfter = (value) => `${value},`

const postalAddress = new PostalAddress()

postalAddress.addFormat({
  country: 'PT',
  format: [
    [{ attribute: 'lastName', transforms: [addCommaAfter] }, 'firstName'],
    ['city', 'postalCode'],
    ['country'],
  ],
})
```

#### Valid attributes

```txt
address1
address2
addressNum
city
companyName
country
countryAlpha2
do
dong
firstLastName
firstName
gu
honorific
jobTitle
lastName
postalCode
prefecture
province
region
republic
secondLastName
secondName
si
state
title
```

## Experimental string parsing

If you're interested in parsing a string into an object, you can use the new
experimental support for parsing addresses using some existing libraries.
However, note that these are optional and not required for the primary
functionality of this library.

### libpostal

This is the most complete and comprehensive library for parsing addresses. You
need to be using the **node** version as it's not supported on the web.

#### Optional Requirements for libpostal Support

If you wish to utilize the `libpostal` experimental features, follow these
steps:

1. Install [libpostal][libpostal] following their installation instructions, or
   execute [this script][install-libpostal] if you're on a \*nix machine.
2. Install [node-postal][node-postal] as an **optional** dependency in your
   project, _after installing libpostal_. This is not required for the core
   functionality but only if you want to use the `libpostal` features.

Remember, these steps are optional and are only for users interested in the
experimental string parsing feature.

#### Experimental usage

Notice the import is slightly different, you should import this library as
`i18n-postal-address/strings`.

```js
const PostalAddress = require('i18n-postal-address/strings').default

const postalAddress = new PostalAddress()

postalAddress.fromString(
  'Barboncino 781 Franklin Ave, Crown Heights, Brooklyn, NY 11238',
)

console.log(postalAddress.toString())
```

```txt
Barboncino 781 Franklin Ave
Crown Heights Brooklyn
NY 11238
```

## Background

### Why

The [libpostal][libpostal] library is not available on the web.

Need to present postal addresses for different regions worldwide stored in
individual parts (company name, address, postal code, city, county, country,
...).

### Inspiration

**Disclaimer:** It doesn't mean this library tries to recreate any of these

MSDN > ... > Globalization and Localization >
[Appendix V International Address Formats][msappendix]

[Query Address Data][qad]

[PostalAddress][pa]

## Forking / Contributing

Build

```sh
yarn build
```

Test

```sh
yarn test:unit

yarn test:functional
```

<!-- References -->

[codepen]: https://codepen.io/joaocarmo/pen/bGeOVQw
[install-libpostal]: ./scripts/install-libpostal.sh
[libpostal]: https://github.com/openvenues/libpostal
[msappendix]: https://msdn.microsoft.com/en-us/library/cc195167.aspx
[node-postal]: https://github.com/openvenues/node-postal
[pa]: https://schema.org/PostalAddress
[playground]: https://joaocarmo.com/i18n-postal-address-playground
[qad]: http://i18napis.appspot.com/address
[skypack]: https://skypack.dev
